.\" typst-manager.1 — man page for typst-manager
.\" Generated for typst-manager 0.2.0
.TH TYPST\-MANAGER 1 "2025" "typst\-manager 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.
.SH NAME
typst\-manager \- manage Typst templates and documents from the command line
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B typst\-manager new
.I name
.B \-\-template
.I name
.RB [ \-\-out
.IR dir ]

.B typst\-manager template create
.I name
.RB [ \-\-from
.IR source ]
.RB [ \-d
.IR description ]

.B typst\-manager template edit
.I name

.B typst\-manager template rename
.I name
.I new\-name

.B typst\-manager template delete
.I name
.RB [ \-\-yes ]

.B typst\-manager template list

.B typst\-manager config show

.B typst\-manager config set
.I key
.I value

.B typst\-manager man
.fi
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B typst\-manager
is a command\-line tool for managing a personal library of
.BR Typst (1)
templates and spinning up new documents from them.
Templates are plain folders on disk — no database, no lock\-in.
.PP
Each template contains at least a
.B main.typ
entry point plus any supporting files.
When you create a new document with
.BR "typst\-manager new" ,
the template folder is copied into a self\-contained project directory
that you can edit freely; future changes to the template do not affect
existing documents.
.
.SH COMMANDS
.
.SS "typst\-manager new"
Create a new document folder from a template.
.PP
.RS 4
.TP
.I name
Name of the new document. A folder with this name is created inside the
current directory (or inside
.I dir
if
.B \-\-out
is given).
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-template " " \fIname\fR
Name of the template to use (required).
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-out " " \fIdir\fR
Parent directory for the new document folder. Defaults to the current
working directory.
.RE
.
.SS "typst\-manager template create"
Create a new template. Four modes are available depending on
.BR \-\-from :
.PP
.RS 4
.TP
.B (no \-\-from)
Start from a ready\-to\-use boilerplate:
.BR main.typ ,
.BR template.typ ,
.BR metadata.typ ,
and
.BR sources.bib .
The template folder is opened in the configured editor afterwards.
.TP
.BI \-\-from " dir"
Save an existing document directory as a template.
All files are copied except compiled
.B .pdf
artefacts and any existing
.BR meta.toml .
The directory must contain a
.B main.typ
file.
.TP
.BI \-\-from " file.typ"
Import a single
.B .typ
file as the template's
.BR main.typ .
.TP
.BI \-\-from " template\-name"
Duplicate an existing template as the starting point.
.RE
.PP
Options:
.RS 4
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-description " " \fItext\fR
Short description shown in
.BR "template list" .
.RE
.
.SS "typst\-manager template edit"
Open the template folder in the configured editor.
.
.SS "typst\-manager template rename"
Rename a template. The folder is moved; its contents are unchanged.
.
.SS "typst\-manager template delete"
Permanently delete a template folder.
A confirmation prompt is shown unless
.B \-\-yes
is given.
.
.SS "typst\-manager template list"
Print all templates with their names and descriptions.
.
.SS "typst\-manager config show"
Print the active configuration and the location of the config file.
.
.SS "typst\-manager config set"
Change a configuration value.
.PP
.RS 4
.TP
.B editor
Editor used to open template folders.
Accepted values:
.B system
(OS default),
.BR code ,
.BR vim ,
.BR nvim .
Default:
.BR system .
.TP
.B author
Your name, stored for reference.
.RE
.
.SS "typst\-manager man"
Display this manual.
On Linux and macOS the man page is opened with
.BR man (1).
On Windows it is printed to the terminal.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B Linux
\fI~/.local/share/typst\-manager/\fR
.TP
.B macOS
\fI~/Library/Application Support/typst\-manager/\fR
.TP
.B Windows
\fI%APPDATA%\\typst\-manager\\\fR
.PP
Override the data directory by setting the environment variable
.BR TYPST_MANAGER_HOME .
.PP
The directory layout is:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
<data\-dir>/
├── config.toml
└── templates/
    └── <name>/
        ├── main.typ        required entry point
        ├── meta.toml       name and description
        └── ...             any other template files
.fi
.RE
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TYPST_MANAGER_HOME
Override the default data directory.
.TP
.B EDITOR
Used as a fallback if no editor is set in
.BR config.toml .
.
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a blank template and edit it:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
typst\-manager template create article
.fi
.RE
.PP
Save a document you are working on as a template:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
typst\-manager template create letter \-\-from ~/docs/my\-letter/
.fi
.RE
.PP
Start a new document from the
.I article
template:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
typst\-manager new quarterly\-report \-\-template article
.fi
.RE
.PP
List all available templates:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
typst\-manager template list
.fi
.RE
.PP
Change the default editor to Neovim:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
typst\-manager config set editor nvim
.fi
.RE
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR typst (1),
.BR man (1)
.PP
Documentation and source code:
.I https://github.com/orvizz/typst\-manager
.
.SH AUTHORS
typst\-manager contributors.
.PP
Report bugs at:
.I https://github.com/orvizz/typst\-manager/issues
